# Spore Server IDs
A list of IDs from the official Spore server.

The official Spore server (Pollinator) tracks all items using unique 12-digit IDs. This repository exists to store a list of all known IDs for reference and archiving purposes.

IDs beginning with 3 are Maxis items. These mostly include Maxis creations that were released after the launch of the game, and thus delivered through the server instead of being bundled in the game's data files.

IDs beginning with 5 represent player content. This includes creations, users, sporecasts, postcards, and possibly comments and ratings.

All IDs are generated by the server, in order. However, while IDs are generated incrementally, many IDs go unused, as the game requests a fresh ID every time a player logs in, so that an ID is ready to be bundled with a creation that the player shares. If the player does not share a creation, the ID may go permanently unused. This results in many gaps in what would otherwise be a continuous range of IDs. The server provides no means to determine which IDs are actually in use, or what type of item they are for, thus the purpose of this repository.

One tool for bulk-checking asset IDs is https://github.com/Red-Lattice/spore_id_gatherer. This tool operates by iterating through a continuous range of IDs, and executing HTTP HEAD requests against the server that stores asset PNGs. This server returns 200 OK if an asset PNG exists for the tested ID, or 404 Not Found if no asset by the ID exists. By bulk-testing IDs this way, it is possible to determine which IDs are used for assets.

A note on user IDs: Some early user IDs do not follow the 12-digit ID system. These are instead EA account IDs, and were used for Spore users that were created prior to the full game launch. The format for storing these IDs is TBD.

## Directory Structure
### Item type
Place all IDs in the appropriate subdirectory based on the item type:
- assets
- users
- sporecasts
- postcards
- comments (if applicable)
- ratings (if applicable)

For any type not in this list, please contact Kade.

### Sub-IDs
Within each type directory, place IDs in nested directories using three digits of the ID.

For example, an asset ID of 500123456789 would be placed in the following file: assets/500/123/456.txt

### Files
Each file must be a plain text file (txt) with one ID per line.

Each file can contain up to 1000 IDs (i.e. last three digits ranging from 000..999, inclusive). The IDs must be in order.

Each line must contain the full ID, not a portion/sub-ID.

For example, the file at assets/500/123/456.txt may contain the following:
```
500123456000
500123456021
500123456123
500123456789
```
(this is an example and the above IDs should not be assumed to be valid)
